now Hamas has announced that Yaya senoir
Israel's Most Wanted man has been chosen
as the new head of the group he succeeds
is hania who was assassinated in the
Iranian Capital Teran last week well
let's take a look at Yaya sina's
background he has most recently been
serving as the leader of hamas's
military Wing in Gaza Israel holds him
along with others responsible for the
October the 7th attack on Israel which
killed around 1200 people and saw more
than 200 kidnapped the 61-year-old was
born in the hanun refugee camp in
southern Gaza his parents were refugees
after his education he was arrested by
Israel at the age of 19 for what they
called Islamic activities 2 years after
the formation of Hamas when he was just
25 sinoa set up the Fe internal security
organization al- Maj in 1988 sinoa
allegedly planned the abduction and
killing of two Israeli soldiers he was
arrested and imprisoned after a murder
conviction by Israel our diplomatic
correspondent Paul Adams sent this
analysis from Jerusalem we understand
that the appointment of Yahya Sina as
the leader of Hamas was unanimous by the
organization's leadership uh it was
always likely in the wake of the
assassination of isma hania an
assassination blamed universally uh on
Israel even though Israel has yet to
comment directly on it it was always was
likely that Yahya Sina would be uh the
figure to take over there were one or
two other candidates uh but Yahya Sina
is by far the most prominent and I think
what it tells us is that uh hamas's
reaction uh to the assassination of is
hania is one of total Defiance uh by
killing uh if not a moderate definitely
the most pragmatic uh member of Hamas uh
Israel has now secured as the leader of
Hamas the most radical uh the uh figure
within the organization the man most
committed to the use of violence uh the
man generally regarded as the Chief
Architect of the Dreadful Hamas attacks
of October the 7th last year uh there is
no interlocutor now uh for Hamas outside
of the Gaza Strip everything is now
going to be in the hands of yak sinat
frankly most of it was already before
this uh but he is now the if you like uh
Undisputed uh political and military
leader of Hamas it is going to make it
very difficult if not impossible uh to
conduct negotiations it's all a very
cumbersome process of getting messages
in and out of the Gaza Strip uh none of
that is going to be made any easier as a
result of this as far as the Israeli
reaction is concerned well perhaps they
anticip ated that their attitude towards
Mr sinoa is the same as their attitude
towards anyone associated with Hamas
which is that he is a terrorist leader a
man with Israeli blood on his hands and
that uh the they will not rest until he
like isma hania is dead Paul Adams
reporting there